Now you know how to get the users location and also how to display a map showing any location.
The next step should be fairly obvious and that is to create an app with a map that's centered on the
user's location.
That's what we're going to be doing in this video.
And in fact I'm going to set it as a challenge.
So I would recommend starting with the Google Maps activity as a new app and then setting up the location
code so that it asks the user for permission and then when it has it displays the user's location on
the map.
Best of luck.
Go for it.
All right.
I hope you manage that.
It was just a combination of the last two videos worth of code so I show you how I would have done it.
So we'll start with a new project
I'll call it map and location demo.
And we'll stick with marshmallow
and a Google Maps activity
and we get.
So I'm going to start by grabbing
my map Deemer app which contains my Google Maps API key as I mentioned.
I wouldn't recommend sharing keys between apps for apps that are actually going onto the App Store but
if you're just testing things out it's perfectly fine.
So over in my Google Maps demo app I'm going to go to the Google Maps API so the Excel file and then
just copy my Google Maps keep and then I'll head back over to my new app map on location demo and paste
the key in there.
Great.
I'll set the app running on
my android 6 device.
And while that's carrying our jump over to the map was activity code and remind myself what's going
on here.
So remember we've got the create method as we're used to.
We also have the on map ready method.
So I'm going to be writing my code in that because I don't want to be updating the center of the map
until the map is ready to be updated.
I have had an error installing the API.
The IP I did just get an error installing the IP K-Bitch which I do get occasionally when that happens
I usually shut down the emulator and restart it.
So I'll do that when the app is ready.
OK.
Code wise we're going to need a location manager location manager and also our location listener cold
location listener
and then can automatically include the losses for those and also location listener.
OK so now down here in on map ready we'll set up our location
manager.
So this is going to be cast as a location manager.
How are we're going to get it from this context.
And get system service and the system service that we want is context dot locations that this in fact
does remind me I need to add the permission in the manifest.
That's very handy.
So the Google Maps activity automatically puts the access find location permission in the manifest for
you.
Very useful
OK.
Now we set up our location listener
this is going to be a new location listener
and on location change this time just for a bit of variety.
I'm going to TOSed
the location rather than putting it in the locks.
Obviously once we've convinced ourselves that everything's working we'll update the map with the location.
But I'll leave that till a little later.
We're not going to edit any of those.
We'll leave those as is and will do our check to see if
the build version STK is less than 23.
Then we want to take out a location manager and request location updates using location manager talked
G.P.A. provider and we'll stick to 0 so update it in zero seconds and zero meters.
So essentially any change of location will be made aware of how we use our location listener to process
that
and then if that's not the case we need to ask for permission and we do that using context compact compatibility
check self permission and the context is this and the permission we want to check is manifest so just
manifest
got permission access fine location and we want to check to see if that's not equal to the package manager
got permission granted.
So if it's not granted we need to check for permission using activity compacts don't request permissions
and we want to request them for this activity and they string array that we want to request.
It's just a single string which is manifest but permission to access find location
and then we add a little number one on the end to that kind of ID number.
And if that's not the case then we must have permission.
So that's kick off our location listener.
All right we're nearly there.
Well that's happening.
I'm just going to run the app again.
To get the device carrying
and then up here we're going to add our code to the on request permissions result.
There we go.
And again just for a bit of a will do a little check to see if request code is equal to one which we
know it will be because there's only a single request in this app.
But just to show you how we would use request code if we wanted to.
Well then do a check to see if.
And just to show you why we do a double check if we're used Grant results 3 is equal to package manager
not permission granted if we just use that we might get an error because there might not be a zeroth
item in grot results.
It might be an empty array.
So to check that use Grant results don't length and check that that is greater than zero first and then
we check that the first result is permission granted.
And if that's the case then we can take our location manager and request location updates using
location manager it's gas provider zero for time zero for meters and location listener.
There we go.
In fact I have something I need to check.
If we have the permission again so I'll copy that up just as we did before
but remembering that we now need to check that permission is granted rather than is not granted and
that should do it.
So I'm going to press the run button again to restart the app.
Use that device.
And unless I've forgotten something which is very easy to do when you're working with either location
we should now get the dialog box to request the users location and then when they say yes and we update
the location we get this TOSed appearing on the screen.
Let's see.
It looks like I've forgotten a few semi-colons.
Easily done.
So let's have a quick look.
Where there is an
actually it looks like
I don't have enough closing parentheses then.
So I actually wanted a closing parenthesis to match that one.
I suspect that will solve the problem.
So notice the error message isn't necessarily a correct description of what the error is.
It can be caused by something a few lines above.
It's actually different to what Android studio is claiming.
OK let's try this again.
And here we go.
Just a quick word of warning on the Mac.
I had to rename the folder name without the sign in it.
So if you have problems with that just closed down the project rename the folder to remove the and sign
and then load it up again and it should be fine.
So here we go.
Let's allow the app access to my location so you can see the map is appearing as expected.
And then let's update the location.
And we should see the new location as a toast.
Fingers crossed.
There it is.
Rob.
Excellent.
So that's all working well.
Now we just need to change the code so that instead of displaying a taste we update the location of
the map.
So let's move these lines of code up to taste and then we want to get the location here.
So it's going to be location don't get latitude.
Now you haven't seen before but hopefully you could have figured that out.
It's not too tricky.
And then location gets long into and let's change that from Sydney to use a location
and then we'll just change the title to your location.
All right let's give it a try.
So we should now find that the app centers on the users location
let's find out.
OK so let's update the location.
And there we go.
And of course if the user is traveling around then this would update every second or so.
It's a gradual movement of the map as the user moves around.
Now you may have noticed one slight issue there when we launched the app.
It didn't zero in on the users current location and that's because our code so far only updates the
map when the location is changed.
So we want to add a little bit of code that gets users current location.
When the app is launched so we'll do that here.
So if the app is launched and we can get the user's location so we can do that by finding the users
last known location.
So let's create a location variable of call it last known location and we can get that from our location
manager and get the last known location that we got using the provider that we're used to location manager
talk GPS provider.
So that will give us the last known location and we can then
use exactly the same carried here.
Except instead of location we use last known location with an eye on the end to show that valley
so let's have a look.
Now when we run that it should start the app
in the appropriate location
and then we get in exactly the same location it was before.
And of course
as we update the location updates the app haha but it has shown us a slight issue with our app that
every time we add a marker we really need to delete the existing markets and we can do that very easily
by simply taking our Google map
and clearing it simple as that.
Obviously you want to do that before you add the new market.
Otherwise you're clear that as well.
There we go.
So that will now clear all the existing markets from Europe and only at the latest one excellent.
So we now have a great boiler plate app that you can use for any app that requires a map centered on
the user's location.
It's just said and actions are out.
If I change that to 30 then that will update the map every day and move the market down.
Fantastic.
So it is time to put our new found gas related knowledge into action by building an app that I like
to call hiker's watch.
We'll do that in the next video.